**On “Not Seeing Race”/ Colorblindness:**

1. Yes, it's true there is no scientific basis for race, but it doesn't mean that people's perceptions about race don't cause real pain and suffering. To deny the existence of race as a social construct is to deny the cause of hurt for many people. In order to create an environment of justice and love, we must understand the complex nature of the social ill of racism

2. To talk about "not seeing race" is to imply there is something shameful about appearing physically different from one another. The diversity of humanity (both culturally and physically) should celebrated not treated as a taboo.

3. Even if you claim not to see race or believe in it, study after study has shown that unconscious cognitive biases affect our perceptions of our black brothers and sisters. From believing that black people feel less pain, that they more inherently dangerous, to estimating that black children are older than they are (http://newsone.com/2962437/american-psychological-association-black-boys/), these biases create an environment of racism that is protected by white people's fear of discussing and confronting race directly. http://www.cracked.com/article_21822_5-studies-that-prove-racism-still-way-worse-than-we-think.html

Article on Colorblindness as Racism: http://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/colorblind/201112/colorblind-ideology-is-form-racism

Ignoring racial bias doesn't eliminate it. Diversity is important and valuable--but without dismantling the status quo of our "colorblind" world (which allows discrimination to thrive), we won't have a healthy basis for unity.

**On the Benefits of Diversity:**

https://www.asme.org/engineering-topics/articles/diversity/more-diverse-personalities-mean-more-successful

**On Victim Blaming/What the Victim could have done differently/ Why is this about race?:**

I guess the problem with that line of thinking (what could the victim have done differently) is that it shifts focus away from the real problem. We have accepted the "common sense" rationale that interactions with police are inherently dangerous and that any erratic or disrespectful behavior on the part of citizens is a provocation that might reasonably lead to a violent police response. The police are tasked with dealing with people in their most vulnerable, most erratic states. It is not reasonable to give these people (with guns) a job that demands calm, clear thinking in the face of misbehavior on the one hand and allow them to have the expectation of perfect respect and compliance (with the consequence of failure to meet that expectation being violence and death) on the other. The question also creates the expectation that people of color don't already worry about/have experience dealing with the police every day and deeply understand the risks involved with such interactions. When Eric Garner died, he was standing up for himself because he had been repeatedly harassed by police: "This ends today," he said. To ask what he, or any victims of police brutality, might have done differently is to place blame on him for a police culture of harassment and violence that is entirely out of his control.

TLDR: Police should be held to a higher moral standard than that of a dangerous wild animal (don't provoke it or it might kill you). To treat them as such, and to create a responsibility in victims that they should accept that paradigm, is to fail to understand the true problem being described.

I'm sympathetic to the feeling that crime is overwhelming. With all the sources of media we have to be informed about what's going on, it can feel like an immediate problem. However, violent crime is at a 40 year low. And, while mass incarceration and the War on Drugs has created more prisoners, there is no evidence that there are more people using drugs now (just more people in prison rather than treatment for it).

But really, the reason race comes into this discussion is not because some races are asking for less accountability for behavior than others, it's that they are asking for the same as their white counterparts. For example, whites and people of color use drugs at the same rates, but 90% of the people incarcerated for drug use are people of color (whites are typically not arrested or sent to treatment programs). When it comes to police brutality, while we can find examples of all kinds of people suffering from this ill, unarguably the main brunt of this treatment has fallen on people of color. Consider, the Sandy Hook shooter was brought in to face charges rather than shot on sight, while Eric Garner (who at most allegedly was selling loose cigarettes), was killed. This disparate assessment of threat is based not on facts, but on mostly unconscious biases regarding the officers' perception of race and their inherent dangers. The science of these "blink" decisions is fascinating, and the more you look at the studies about these decisions when related to race, the more you come to the conclusion that we cannot safely make accurate mortal decisions without the process being corrupted by these hidden processes. http://www.motherjones.com/.../science-of-racism-prejudice

If you are truly interested in the state of policing (and the justice system, generally), there is an excellent book I can recommend (it is from one of the preeminent legal scholars in this country) . We live in a country with two systems of justice, one for white one for people of color. We have the luxury of ignoring that reality if we want and trying to comfort ourselves that everyone else somehow "deserves" their treatment. Perhaps in individual cases, that seems reasonable; when looking at the system as a whole, it becomes much more problematic. http://www.amazon.com/The-New-Crow-Incarceration-Colorblindness/dp/1595586431

This perpetuates a false narrative. Protesters aren't saying cops are bad, they are merely demanding accountability for police violence and brutality--something I would assume everyone wants. Also, no one is accusing "all white people" of being racist, but it is clear that there are inherent cognitive biases that we all share (including people of color) against people of color (including expecting them to be more dangerous, overestimating their age, believing them to experience less pain, etc.). These thoughts aren't the "saying racial slurs and expressing hatred towards another group" racism that most white people claim to be innocent of, but rather something more insidious, hidden, and therefore more dangerous. To outright claim freedom from racism is to deny reality (the cognitive biases I mentioned are well-documented and studied) It's admirable to want to promote love and unity, but not when the purpose of that promotion seems to be shutting down discussions of important issues of justice. The question becomes how do we show love to those who are expressing pain and oppression? And, how is a lack of justice a barrier to unity?

Additionally, I find it strange that so many people respond to protests against police brutality and injustice by saying not all cops are bad, or most cops are good guys. In my opinion, it's not productive to talk about "good" and "bad" cops, any more than it's productive to talk about there being "good" and "bad" men in the context of misogyny and rape. In both cases, there is a clear and pervasive cultural problem that is leading to violence and oppression. And, in both cases, it is not enough for those who consider themselves "good" to stand by and think "well, I'm not like that." Any change will require deeds and actions to match words and thoughts. In this context, any police officer, department, or union that doesn't openly support the elimination of anti-black policies and brutality generally is not, in fact, on the side of the "good guys."

**On the “Pull up your pants” attitude:**

*More to be added here*

**On “Where are the black leaders on this issue:”**

 Also, making the solving of racism, our most challenging issue, the sole responsibility of those who have been historically oppressed is unjust. I don’t care if you’re talking about the President or any other black leader: it is not their responsibility to make their oppression understood or heal the divide between races. We all are tasked with increasing unity, but I believe it is fair to say that the greater onus is on the privileged race to make efforts to, at the very least, educate ourselves about the issues that need addressing in tackling the institution of racism.

**On “Black Lives Matter” v. “All Lives Matter”:**

I think it’s important for you to understand that when someone says “every life matters” in response to those talking about “black life matters,” it comes across as trying to diminish the real problems of racism that they are trying to address and I know that you don’t intend to communicate that, so I wanted to give you that perspective. Of course, every life matters, but the culture in no way diminishes the value of white life; it does diminish the value of people of color. So, understand that when we say “black lives matter” we are calling for the uplifting of those who have been oppressed, rather than pitting one group against another. As far as addressing these social ills, because racism is built into all the structures of our culture (from healthcare, to the legal system, to housing, to finance, to education, etc.) there are no limits to the areas where our impact can be felt—and that impact becomes more effective when we use the tools of the institute process of the Baha’i faith. The important thing to remember when tackling this most challenging problem is that racism is different than prejudice: any individual can demonstrate prejudice regardless of race/gender/background, but racism is the institutionalized oppression of a group based on race. In understanding this fact, we come to recognize that we aren’t looking for mean people, or even what we consider “racist” people. Instead, it involves looking at how policies, rules, practices, expectations, impact people of color in disparate ways. Therefore, when looking to be an effective advocate, we must ask those around us to be thoughtful members of society, to prayerfully reflect on how they life every aspect of their lives (including their professional lives), and to connect the need to create justice for oppressed peoples with their own personal spiritual progress.

**On White Privilege:**

The thing is, the "privileges" that we are talking about are generally experiences like being assumed to be nonviolent, being given the benefit of the doubt when problems arise, etc. I really feel like in most cases of disparity of treatment, "privilege" is a misnomer because the disparity in treatment shouldn't be seen as "an added benefit that one group gets (and therefore one that should be eliminated)" but rather the standard of how we treat everyone (no one should be assumed violent, everyone should be treated with friendliness by authority figures, etc.). I find a lot of white people are reluctant to accept the label of "privilege" because they don't sense they are being treated unusually well...In most cases they are right, in the sense that they are being treated how we (white people) thought everyone was supposed to be treated. ...I do think that white allowance is a better alternative to "privilege." Here's hoping the conversation on this topic continues to evolve.

**On “Reverse Racism”:**

The problem is the confusing racism (the systematic oppression of a people or group through social constructs, laws, and indifference) with prejudice (an individual's feeling of anger or hatred towards another based on preconceived notions). Anyone can be prejudice, but racism is its own specific horrible thing. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dw_mRaIHb-M&feature=kp
Racism is different from discrimination (though, of course, it is one aspect of the disease). You may very well be experiencing discrimination but that does not make it “reverse racism.” Racism is the institutionalized oppression of a people through the laws, governance, accesses to services, information, portrayal in the media, etc. It is an error to conflate instances of discrimination with actual racism.

So, we can see that, to achieve true justice in the physical world we need to take a few steps:
Acknowledge our fundamental goal of Justice as a “gift from God,” set it within our sights,
Take account of ourselves, acknowledging our personal resources, our privileges, ways in which we have received blessings or benefit in the world.
Take stock of the deficit, or injustice, created by our benefit (the more extreme our benefit, the more extreme the deficit in another)
Take steps through personal and collective sacrifice of our privilege and benefits to upraise those who have been made to suffer for our advantage and thereby creating a firmer foundation of justice for all of mankind.

**Law Enforcement**

**On Police Targeting the Black Community:**

In 2002 University of Washington conducted a study to see if higher arrest rates of black citizens (in racially segregated areas) correlated with higher incidence of crime in those areas. They found that those arrest rates "could not be explained by rates of offending, nor could they be explained by other standard excuses, such as the ease and efficiency of policing open-air drug markets, citizen complaints, crime rates, or drug-related violence." Residents were far more likely to report suspected narcotics in white residences, rather than the "open air drug markets" in black communities that were the favored target. In fact, although hundreds of outdoor drug transactions were recorded in the predominantly white areas, police concentrated their drug enforcement efforts in one drug market (in a predominately black community) where the frequency was much lower. Also, the department focused overwhelmingly on crack (the one drug more likely to be sold by people of color) despite the fact that local hospital records indicated that O.D deaths involving heroin were more numerous than all overdose deaths for crack and cocaine combined. The study (which has been replicated in communities across the country) concluded that "white people are simply not perceived as drug offenders" despite the fact that whites and blacks use drugs at the same rates (and whites are more likely to be dealers than blacks).

This, of course doesn't capture the number of arrests that come out of vehicle stops where a white vehicle is more likely than one of a person of color to be carrying illegal drugs or contraband (2 times more likely than black and 5 times more likely than latinos). And yet, 80% of those pulled over and searched are people of color.
http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2013/06/04/the-blackwhite-marijuana-arrest-gap-in-nine-charts/

The data shows that police do intentionally target black neighborhoods through increased patrol, are more likely to stop and frisk black pedestrians, and more likely to search black people's cars all under the assumption that they will find evidence of drug crimes--even though, as the chart I posted above shows, whites and black use drugs at the same rates. In fact, a cop would be MORE likely to find drugs in a white person's car than a blacks, and yet the black person is 300% more likely to be stopped. That is the very definition of targeting.

**On Not all Cops are Bad:**

The point isn't that all x are doing something, it's that a group is consistently being harmed and that is a problem that needs to be seriously addressed. There is a cultural problem in modern policing that allows those who commit harmful (murderous) acts to be protected (less than 1% of police misconduct cases ever make it to trial) as well as encourage those who might hold harmful views to enter the profession (those who desire to exert authority and control over a population, rather than serve it). So, yes, not all cops are bad, but since nearly all black men have stories of experiencing police harassment, I don't see how that's really relevant.

* Arrest rates for marijuana 6 times higher for black offenders, even though usage between races about equal. Police arrest blacks for marijuana possession at higher rates than whites in every state and nearly every city and county—as FBI Uniform Crime Reports and state databases indisputably show. States with the largest racial disparities arrest blacks at six times the rate of whites. http://www.thenation.com/article/176915/scandal-racist-marijuana-possession-arrests-and-why-we-must-stop-them#
* Blacks killed by “patrolling figures.” Every 28 hours a Black person in the United States is killed by police, security, or vigilantes, according to a 2012 Malcolm X Grassroots Movement study. Now, look at this!! http://www.informationclearinghouse.info/article36807.htm
* Reasonable suspicion lower. Don't clinch your butt in America -- that is probable cause for anal rectum search for naroctics and to add insult to injury for the hospital to bill you for the cost: http://www.dailykos.com/story/2013/11/05/1253274/-Absolutely-unimaginable-this-could-happen-in-America

**Legislation**

* Stand your Ground laws. The key provision of the law states that individuals may shoot if the individual honestly and reasonably believes that the use of deadly force is necessary to prevent the imminent death of or imminent great bodily harm to himself or herself or to another individual. The operative words that virtually give anyone a license to use such force is "honestly and reasonably." That's a murky legal minefield that's wide open to individual interpretation and prosecutors know this. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/earl-ofari-hutchinson/the-slaying-of-renisha-mc_b_4248351.html
* Stop-and frisk (only about 8% of stops lead to arrests, of those arrests, only about half of New York City's police arrests using the controversial stop-and-frisk tactic lead to convictions and about a quarter lead to prison sentences, according to a report released on Thursday by the state's top prosecutor. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/11/14/half-of-new-yorks-stop-a_n_4277680.html
* Mandatory drug testing of welfare recipients. 
* Marijuana criminalization. “The Center for Disease Control reported in 2008 that more deaths are caused each year by tobacco use than by "HIV, illegal drug use, alcohol use, motor vehicle injuries, suicides, and murders combined." We could, of course, address the harm caused by tobacco by criminalizing all those who smoke it. We could turn cigarette smokers into criminals. But we won't. The reason some substances are criminalized - while others are not - has less to do with the harm those substances cause than the people we imagine are using them.” Michelle Alexander. http://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/fact_sheets/health_effects/effects_cig_smoking/?mobile=nocontent

Sentencing

* Higher incarceration rates. African Americans, Latinos, and American Indians are disproportionately imprisoned and penalized by the criminal justice system… Black people are currently incarcerated at a rate 5.6 times that of whites, while the Hispanic rate of incarceration is 1.8 times that of whites. One out of every 14 Black children has at least one parent in prison. (http://www.emfp.org/MainMenuCategory/Library/ResearchResourceLinks/RaceRacialInequalityandHealthInequitiespdf.aspx)
* White Americans are more likely than black Americans to have used most kinds of illegal drugs, including cocaine, marijuana and LSD. Yet blacks are far more likely to go to prison for drug offenses. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/09/17/racial-disparity-drug-use_n_3941346.html?utm_hp_ref=fb&src=sp&comm_ref=false
* ¼ of world’s prison population is in US. http://www.upworthy.com/i-never-would-have-guessed-where-a-quarter-of-the-worlds-prison-population-is?c=ufb1
* Life sentence for non-violent offences. A shocking new study by the American Civil Liberties Union has found that more than 3,200 people nationwide are serving life terms without parole for nonviolent offenses. Of those prisoners, 80 percent are behind bars for drug-related convictions. Sixty-five percent are African-American, 18 percent are white, and 16 percent are Latino — evidence of what the ACLU calls "extreme racial disparities. http://www.democracynow.org/2013/11/15/jailed_for_life_for_stealing_a
* Mandatory sentencing

Voting Rights

* Mass incarceration = mass disenfranchisement.  http://www.theatlantic.com/national/archive/2013/10/how-prisons-change-the-balance-of-power-in-america/280341/
* Removal of voting-rights protections.
* 3/5ths laws

City Planning/Environment

* Lack of access to recreation and safe places. Black and Latino neighborhoods also have fewer parks and green spaces than white neighborhoods, and fewer safe places to walk, jog, bike or play, including fewer gyms, recreational centers and swimming pools. Their neighborhoods are less likely to be walk-able (homes near stores and jobs) and more likely to have streets that are not safe after dark. Cautious parents in poor neighborhoods keep their children indoors after school – where they are more likely to watch TV, play video games and eat – rather than allow them out to play on unsafe streets. http://www.emfp.org/MainMenuCategory/Library/ResearchResourceLinks/RaceRacialInequalityandHealthInequitiespdf.aspx
* High exposure to environmental hazards. Dozens of empirical studies over the past 40 years have determined that low-income communities and communities of color are more likely to be exposed to environmental hazards. For example, 56% of residents in neighborhoods with commercial hazardous waste facilities are people of color even though they comprise less than 30% of our population. http://www.emfp.org/MainMenuCategory/Library/ResearchResourceLinks/RaceRacialInequalityandHealthInequitiespdf.aspx
* Banks neglecting foreclosures in black neighborhoods. In 2012, a National Fair Housing Alliance survey of bank-owned properties in nine metro areas found that those buildings in predominantly white neighborhoods were more likely to be properly maintained by the bank while those homes in non-white parts of town were often being allowed to fall into disrepair, driving property values down for neighbors and causing public health and safety concerns. Since then, the NFHA has filed a federal discrimination complaint against the bank for what it alleges are violations of the Fair Housing Act. http://consumerist.com/2013/11/15/bank-of-america-accused-of-neglecting-foreclosures-in-non-white-neighborhoods/
* Food Deserts
* Lack of access to healthy food. One study revealed that black Americans are five times less likely to live in census tracts with supermarkets than white Americans. Nationally, 50% of black neighborhoods lack access to a full service grocery store or supermarket. It’s more challenging to eat right in neighborhoods where fast-food joints, liquor stores and convenience stores proliferate while supermarkets and other sources of affordable, nutritious food are hard to find. The fruit and vegetable intake of Black residents increased an average of 32% for each supermarket in their census tract. http://www.emfp.org/MainMenuCategory/Library/ResearchResourceLinks/RaceRacialInequalityandHealthInequitiespdf.aspx
* Global warming


Educational Access/methods

On “They just need an education”:
This presupposes that black children don't share the same aspirations as their white counterparts--that the problem is motivation rather than institutional racism. That is not supported by data. "More than half of black college students fail to complete their degree work -- for reasons that have little to do with innate ability or environmental conditioning. The problem, a social psychologist argues, is that they are undervalued, in ways that are sometimes subtle and sometimes not." (Those are the ones that make it through disadvantaged preschools, middle and high schools, where they are unjustly targeted). You might find this article interesting: http://www.theatlantic.com/past/docs/unbound/flashbks/blacked/steele.htm
* Worse schools/less funding. Not only do poor and minority school districts receive less funding, have larger class sizes, worse physical infrastructure and more non-credentialed teachers than white districts, but fifty years after the Brown decision, the re-segregation of our schools continues throughout the country. According to a 2007 Civil Rights Project study, “The children in United States’ schools are much poorer than they were decades ago and more separated in highly unequal schools. Black and Latino segregation is usually double segregation, both from whites and from middle-class students.” http://www.emfp.org/MainMenuCategory/Library/ResearchResourceLinks/RaceRacialInequalityandHealthInequitiespdf.aspx
* Censoring books on racism. “I didn’t find any literary value,” board member Gary Mason said at the meeting. “I’m for not allowing it to be available.” Board member before banning Ralph Ellisons “Invisible Man.” http://www.rawstory.com/rs/2013/09/18/north-carolina-school-board-bans-ralph-ellisons-invisible-man/
* Obscuring in history textbooks the effects of slavery/oppression of non-whites. See Howard Zinn’s People’s History, and Lies My Teacher Told Me.

On the Racism of the Founding Fathers/Columbus:
If you read the journals of Columbus, you start to see that he was a pretty horrific person, even by the standards of his own time. I have no problem with condemning him--he committed mass genocide.

And I am unclear what innocent living are punished by acknowledging that we shouldn't be celebrating a man whose accomplishments have been inflated (he didn't discover anything, even by white people standards--there was already thriving trade between that area of the world and placed like Africa and the Middle East) and whose atrocities have been white-washed.

Changing our view of historical figures based on new (or rather more complete) information isn't being over-zealous, I feel it's what rational people do every day. Our history isn't pretty--at some point we have to get used to that fact and learn to embrace it. If we keep glorifying and holding up as heroes those that killed, enslaved, and oppressed people in the name of nation building, we end up tacitly accepting their rationale--that the questionable morality of their actions is overcome by their achievements. I would argue that is not the case. We are paying the price now in civil unrest and inequity for their greedy and morally corrupt approach to "creating" this country.

* Criminalizing discipline in school (arresting for disruptiveness, lack of dress-code clothes, having a cellphone) which is disproportionately directed at black students. http://colorlines.com/archives/2013/11/lessons_on_the_school-to-prison_pipeline_from_the_fresh_prince_of_bel-air.html
* Zero tolerance policies. Restorative justice. 
* Racial anxiety feeling you’re representing your race. Steele argues that situational self-relevance of negative group stereotypes in testing situations increases the anxiety these students experience and that these differential anxiety levels explain performance differences. Research shows that manipulation of stereotype threat can affect academic performance. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11414722 

